The scrips and classifiers shared here are developed for an ex vivo assay (40h culture + ML10 to avoid schizonts from bursting) to assess sexual conversion rates of Plasmodium falciparum in patient's isolates. In theory they work on cuture parasites as well using the same staining protocol: 
We made thin smears form the RBC pellet (can be preserved with desiccant in air tight bags at -80°C until further analysis). Slides were brought to room temperature before removing them from the air tight bags. Followed by fixing with 16%PFA in PBS for 10 min at RT, washing twice with PBS, permeating with 0.1% Triton X-100 in PBS for 5 min at RT, washing twice in PBS and blocking in PBS-3% BSA for 1h at RT. After blocking the mouse anti-PFS16 monoclonal antibody was applied (1:400 in PBS-3% BSA) for 3h at RT or at 4°C ON. Slides were washed 4 times with PBS before applying the goat anti-mouse alpha AF488 antibody (1:1000 in PBS-3% BSA) for 3h at RT or at 4°C ON. Slides were washed 4 times before applying the red blood cell stain Wheat Germ Agglutinin, Texas Red™-X Conjugate (WGA) (Invitrogen, W21405; 2,5 µg/ml in PBS-3% BSA) for 15 min at RT. Smears were mounted with Mounting Medium With DAPI (Abcam ab104139), sealed with nail varnish, and kept at 4°C until scanning. 
The ZEISS Axio Scan.Z1 automatic slide scanner of the ACAM centre at the University of Antwerp was used to acquire full slide images using the 20 x objective for the three channels: DAPI (405 nm), AF488 (488 nm), TeReX (561 nm). Scanning details can be found in the Scanprofile Settings sheet.
QuPath v0.5.136 and the extensions CellPose and Omnipose were used for automatic cell segmentation and training of an automatic cell classifier. 
